(BOLT-1407) Add documentation for running bolt from container (#1117)
puppetlabs/bolt: pre-docs/running_bolt_from_docker_image.md

# Puppet-bolt container

> Puppet Bolt it available as a docker image. Container images are published to [dockerhub](https://hub.docker.com/r/puppet/puppet-bolt/tags) with tags corresponding to bolt system package and Rubygem versions in addition to a `latest` tag which points at the newest version. This document covers some possible ways to use the container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Puppet Bolt is available as a docker image. Container images are published to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/puppet/puppet-bolt/tags) with tags corresponding to bolt system package and Rubygem versions in addition to a `latest` tag which points at the newest version. This document covers some possible ways to use the container.
```

> Puppet Bolt is available as a docker image. Container images are published to [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/puppet/puppet-bolt/tags) with tags corresponding to bolt system package and Rubygem versions in addition to a `latest` tag which points at the newest version. This document covers some possible ways to use the container.

Reviewer 2: Maybe there's a packaging nuance here I'm unaware of, but I think it should be `Bolt system package` (capitalized)

## Downloading the image

> You can download the latest image from dockerhub with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download the latest image from Docker Hub with the following command:
```

Reviewer 2: If downloading the latest image is something that the user has to do (i.e., it's not an optional step), you can make this a lot shorter:
`Download the latest image from Docker Hub:`

If it is optional, you can still shorten it somewhat:
`You can download the latest image from Docker Hub:`

```
docker pull puppet/puppet-bolt
```

## Completely stand-alone

When running Bolt from the container, the `localhost` target is the container environment (not the docker host environment). The following example shows running a command against the localhost target in the container.
```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt$ docker run puppet/puppet-bolt command run 'cat /etc/os-release' -t localhost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker run puppet/puppet-bolt command run 'cat /etc/os-release' -t localhost
```

Reviewer 2: I think we want `not the Docker host environment` (caps).

Reviewer 2: Recommend shortening the prompt to just `$` to avoid confusion.

Started on localhost...
Finished on localhost:
  STDOUT:
    NAME="Ubuntu"
    VERSION="16.04.6 LTS (Xenial Xerus)"
    ID=ubuntu
    ID_LIKE=debian
    PRETTY_NAME="Ubuntu 16.04.6 LTS"
    VERSION_ID="16.04"
    HOME_URL="http://www.ubuntu.com/"
    SUPPORT_URL="http://help.ubuntu.com/"
    BUG_REPORT_URL="http://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/"
    VERSION_CODENAME=xenial
    UBUNTU_CODENAME=xenial
Successful on 1 node: localhost
Ran on 1 node in 0.00 seconds
```

> In order to pass connection information and custom module content we need to share data from the host with the container. The following sections describe some ways to accomplish sharing data with the puppet Bolt container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to pass connection information and custom module content, we need to share data from the host with the container. The following sections describe some ways to accomplish sharing data with the Bolt container.
```

> ## Pass Inventory as an environment variable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Pass inventory as an environment variable
```

> In the case where no custom module content is required for the Bolt action you wish to execute with the container and the only information you need is how to connect to targets you can pass inventory as an environment variable. The following inventory has all the information needed to connect to the example target. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case where no custom module content is required for the Bolt action you wish to execute with the container, and the only information you need is how to connect to targets, you can pass inventory as an environment variable. The following inventory has all the information needed to connect to the example target. 
```

> In the case where no custom module content is required for the Bolt action you wish to execute with the container and the only information you need is how to connect to targets you can pass inventory as an enviornment variable. The following inventory has all the information needed to connect to the example target. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case where no custom module content is required for the Bolt action you wish to execute with the container and the only information you need is how to connect to targets you can pass inventory as an environment variable. The following inventory has all the information needed to connect to the example target. 
```

```yaml
---
nodes:
  - name: pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net
    alias: docker-example
    config:
      transport: ssh
      ssh:
        user: root
        password: secret-password
        host-key-check: false
```

> The following invocation shows an example of running the built-in `facts` task against the target listed in inventory. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of running the built-in `facts` task against the target listed in inventory:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt$ docker run --env "BOLT_INVENTORY=$(cat Boltdir/inventory.yaml)" puppet/puppet-bolt task run facts -t docker-example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker run --env "BOLT_INVENTORY=$(cat Boltdir/inventory.yaml)" puppet/puppet-bolt task run facts -t docker-example
```

Started on pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net...
Finished on pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net:
  {
    "os": {
      "name": "CentOS",
      "release": {
        "full": "7.2",
        "major": "7",
        "minor": "2"
      },
      "family": "RedHat"
    }
  }
Successful on 1 node: pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net
Ran on 1 node in 0.55 seconds
```
## Mount Bolt project directory from host 

> This section describes making a Bolt project directory (Boltdir) available to the container. The directory structure and relevant file content is listed below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes making a Bolt project directory (Boltdir) available to the container. Here is the directory structure and relevant file content:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt$ tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tree
```

.
└── Boltdir
    ├── bolt.yaml
    ├── inventory.yaml
    ├── keys
    │   └── id_rsa-acceptance
    └── site-modules
        └── docker_task
            └── tasks
                └── init.sh

5 directories, 4 files
```
**bolt.yaml**

Bolt configuration file
```yaml
---
log:
  console:
    level: notice
```
**inventory.yaml**

> Store information about targets. Note the absolute path to the private key is the path in the container not the host.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Store information about targets. Note the absolute path to the private key is the path in the container, not in the host.
```

```yaml
---
nodes:
  - name: pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net
    alias: docker-example
    config:
      transport: ssh
      ssh:
        user: root
        private-key: /Boltdir/keys/id_rsa-acceptance
        host-key-check: false
```
**init.sh**

> Example shell task that echos a `message` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is a sample shell task that echoes a `message` parameter:
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash
echo "Message: ${PT_message}"
```

> In order to execute the task with docker and provide all the information provided in the Bolt project directory it is possible to mount the Boltdir on the host with the following invocation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To execute the task with Docker and provide all the information from the Bolt project directory, mount the Boltdir on the host:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt$ docker run --mount type=bind,source=/home/cas/working_dir/docker_bolt/Boltdir,destination=/Boltdir puppet/puppet-bolt task run docker_task message=hi -t docker-example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker run --mount type=bind,source=/home/cas/working_dir/docker_bolt/Boltdir,destination=/Boltdir puppet/puppet-bolt task run docker_task message=hi -t docker-example
```

Started on pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net...
Finished on pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net:
  Message: hi
  {
  }
Successful on 1 node: pnz2rzpxfzp95hh.delivery.puppetlabs.net
Ran on 1 node in 0.56 seconds
```

> The `--mount` flag maps the Boltdir on the docker host to `/Boltdir` in the container, the container is tagged as `puppet-bolt` and the rest of the invocation are all native to Bolt. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `--mount` flag maps the Boltdir on the Docker host to `/Boltdir` in the container. The container is tagged as `puppet-bolt` and the rest of the invocation is all native to Bolt. 
```

> The `--mount` flag maps the local directory to the root directory in the container (the working directory), the container is tagged as `puppet-bolt` and the rest of the invocation are all native to Bolt. 

Reviewer: This is a little confusing. It might be clearer to say it maps the local `Boltdir` to `/Boltdir`, which is where the container image is configured to look for it.

## Building on top of the puppet-bolt image

> You can also extend the puppet-bolt image and copy in data that will always be available for that image. In order to illustrate this we can add a Dockerfile to the directory structure defined in the previous example with the following content:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also extend the puppet-bolt image and copy in data that will always be available for that image. To illustrate this, we can add a Dockerfile with the following content to the directory structure defined in the previous example:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt$ tree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tree
```

.
└── Boltdir
    ├── bolt.yaml
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── inventory.yaml
    ├── keys
    │   └── id_rsa-acceptance
    └── site-modules
        └── docker_task
            └── tasks
                └── init.sh

5 directories, 5 files
```

**Dockerfile**

```Dockerfile
FROM puppet/puppet-bolt

COPY . /Boltdir
```

> The following invocation shows building a container image with our custom module content and tagging it `my-extended-puppet-bolt`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This command builds a container image with our custom module content and tags it `my-extended-puppet-bolt`:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt/Boltdir$ docker build . -t my-extended-puppet-bolt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker build . -t my-extended-puppet-bolt
```

Sending build context to Docker daemon  10.75kB
Step 1/2 : FROM puppet-bolt
 ---> 5d8d2c1166fc
Step 2/2 : COPY . /Boltdir
 ---> 03162d29a1ee
Successfully built 03162d29a1ee
Successfully tagged my-extended-puppet-bolt:latest
```

> You can now run that container with the custom module content and connection information available inside the container. For example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now run that container with the custom module content and connection information available inside the container:
```

```

> cas@cas-ThinkPad-T460p:~/working_dir/docker_bolt/Boltdir$ docker run my-extended-puppet-bolt task run docker_task message=hi -t docker-example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker run my-extended-puppet-bolt task run docker_task message=hi -t docker-example
```
